Catboost - library for gradient boosting by yandex.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8o0e-r0B5xQ&t=358s

Grad Boosting is best for heterogeneous data (tables do not have much 
internal structure).

Grad Boost is easy to use. Heavily used in finance to predict credict scoring,
for recommender systems like song predictions.

Neural networks work greate for homogenous data like images. It is a good
idea to use neural networks together with grad_boosting. For image search 
neural features are combined with other knowledge about the object and 
gradient boosting is used on top of that.

Grad.Boost. is an iterative algorithms based on decision trees.

Why catboost? It outperforms LightGBM, XGBoost, H20. Catboost outperforms 
all other algorithms even with default parameters. 

Catboost always uses full binary trees that are symmetric. The same features
are on the left and on the right. These are simple trees which helps with 
preventing overfitting. And they work very fast. 

For categorical features catboost calculates numeric features based on 
categorical features. Onehot encodeing is performed Like assigning frequency 
based of the category.  
But works bad for single values. The dataset is split into two parts. On the first 
part the statistics of features is calculated and on the second part it is 
trained. That is bad too because only half of the dataset is used. So the 
statistics for the features is computed on objects before the current. Random
permutation is strictly required here. Each feature has its prior. 

While selecting the first node only single categorical features are taken 
into account. 

One hot encoding is performed inside the algorithm. It is better not to mess 
with it on the preprocessing stage. 

Instead of classical boosting ordered boosting is used to prevent overfitting.

pip install catboost

Catboost has native GPU support. The more dta we have, the more speedup we 
get with GPU. Catboost supports multiserver GPU training. Prediction time is
fast because of binary trees. 

Feature importance is included in Catboost. Feature interaction is more 
computationally expensive. Tells which payers of features are interacting the 
most. Per object feature importnace (SHAP) is feature importance for a particular 
object. 

shap_values = mode.get_feature_importance(data=Pool(X,y), fstr_type='ShapValues)
shap.force_plot(shap_values[0,:], X,iloc[0,:])

SHAP graphs in general give a lot of insights on how features affect the 
decision making of the algorithm in general. We can also check which objects in 
the dataset are the most important. If new features are added to the dataset 
we can see if the improvement is statistically significant. 

Automatic new feature evaluation (with statistical significance and p-value). 

Overfitting detector. Also there is metric evaluation during training. Tensorboard 
functionality is supported. 

Missing values support is also present. 

Cross validation is present in both regular form and stratified for imbalanced datasets.

staged_predict + metric evaluation on dataset. 

 Algorithm parameters:
    learning rate + iterations. Validation error stats growing at some point, so we need
    to wait until convergence. The less the learning rate - the better the quality of the
    algorithm, but we need more iterations 

    depth: the value 6 is set by default. But for some datasets we may need deeper trees.
    the strategy here is to start with default and than increase the depth. 

    l2 regularization. We can increase the value of l2 regularization if we see that 
    we overfit too fast. 

    bagging_temperature. While building trees catboost uses object sampling. 
    Bagging_temperature confolds how intensive is the sampling. By default is set to 1
    so all the sampling happens from exponential dist. Can be set to zero so there is no 
    bagging at all. 

    random_strength. When we are selecting the split you score each feature. And catboost
    adds some randomness here. More randomness in the start and less randomness in the end.
    Random noise helps deal with overfitting. 

The way catboost deals with categorical values is explained in a separate technical 
paper. 
